<!--title={assignTitles()}-->
<!--badges={Python:30}-->
<!--concepts={For Loops.md,Variables.md,Boolean Operations.md,If Statements.md}-->

First we will assign runners their titles. To do this, keep in mind we can only give them a title if they had not previously owned it before. If they got the title "Pass" last year, then they cannot get it again this year.

#Iterating

We have to iterate through each of the runners in the **dictionary**. To do so we can use the `items()` function in a **for loop** to obtain both the key and the value.

An example of how the items() function works can be seen here.

```python
d = {1: 'dog', 2: 'cat', 3: 'cow'} 		# a dictionary

for num, animal in d.items():
		print(num, animal)
    
#output shows that items() function allows acces to key and value in dictionary and iterates through them all.
'''
1 dog
2 cat
3 cow
'''
```



Now we apply the items() method in our dictionary.

```python
for num, runnerData in runners.items():
```

# Multiline Assignments

We need to extract the runner's name and time. Since we are extracting multiple pieces of data at once, we can use a **multi-line assignment**. We do this to reduce the amount of lines of code we have to write (1 multi-line assignment instead of 2 lines of assignments).

Note: When doing multiple assignment we are assigning the first variable to what comes after the '=' and the second variable to what comes after the ','. Essentially the variables are assigned the value in the same order they are written.

```python
x, i = 4,5 # x -> 4 and i -> 5
# same as 
x = 4
i = 5
```

Now we apply this to our program

```python
for num, runnerData in runners.items():
    name, time =
```

# String Slicing

We are setting `name` and `time` equal to the 0th and 1st indices of each runner's data (the value of the `runners` dictionary). We **slice** `runnerData` from 0 to 2, since slicing is exclusive of the right index.

Note: When slicing we indicate by `[start:end]`. The start is what position we start and the end is the position we will stop at. This position is inclusive.

```python
x = 'hello'
print(x[0:2])
#ouput will be 'he'
```

Now we can do this with assigning name and time

```python
for num, runnerData in runners.items():
    name, time = runnerData[0:2]
```

#Boolean Operartions

Now, we need to check for whether `time` is less than 60 for the "Pass" title, but we also must check if the runner already had the title. We can use the **Boolean expression** `and` to simultaneously check for both in one **if statement**.  

```python
cond_x and cond_y
```

checks if both `cond_x` and `cond_y` are true. If they are both True, then we can add that title by appending it to the third data spot. `not` and `in` can be used to determine whether an element is in a **list** (in this case, whether `title` is in `runnerData` or not).

```python
for num, runnerData in runners.items():
    name, time = runnerData[0:2]

    # "Pass" title
    title = "Pass"
    if (time < 60 and title not in runnerData[2]): # notice the `and` condition here
        runnerData[2].append(title)
```

#Checking with If statement

We then need to check if the runner qualifies for a "Fail" title. Since there are two qualifying conditions for "Fail", we can use the `or` condition to simultaneously check for both of them using only one **if statement**. We check if `time` is at least a minute **or** the runner did not qualify for "Pass" (this is why we checked for "Pass" first).

```python
# "Fail" title
title = "Fail"
if (time >= 60 or "Pass" not in runnerData[2]):
    runnerData[2].append(title)
```

For the "On the dot" title, we need to see if the time they ended on is exactly on a second. We need to check for a remainder after dividing by 1, so we can use the modulus operator to check for a remainder after dividing by 1.

```python
    title = "On the dot"
    if (time % 1 == 0):
        runnerData[2].append(title)
```
